This video is brought to you by curiosity stream, go to curiosity,
stream.com/biographics for unlimited access to the world's top documentaries and
nonfiction series. And for our viewers enter the promo code.
Biographics when prompted during the signup process and your membership is
totally free for 30 days.
Nancy wake was a beautiful, smart Australian woman living in France.
And at first glanced,
she looked like a housewife and no one would've suspected that she was actually
a secret agents for the SOE during world war II.
She was given the nickname of the white mouse because she continued to escape
from the Nazis grasp. After becoming an in espionage,
she was put on the guapos most wanted list and had a 5 million Frank bounty
on her head in the video today,
we're looking at the incredible story of Nancy wake, the white mouse.
Luckily for us, Nancy wake wrote her own autobiography.
So we know of information about her life and adventurous. First and foremost,
she was born in Wellington New Zealand in 1912. At the age of two,
her parents moved to Australia and she was raised in Sydney.
Nancy was a very independent and free spirited girl. So at the age of 16,
she ran away from home to work as a nurse. A few years later,
she inherited 200 pounds from her aunts.
Now this might not sound like a lot of money eat today, but back then,
that was worth about the equivalent of 11,500 pounds.
This gave her the financial freedom to travel and live her best life. As age 19,
she hopped on a boat and landed in north America who experienced life in New
York city. She just so happened to be there during prohibition.
She said I had never consumed so much alcohol in my short life.
People were making it in S after getting this partying out of our system,
Nancy decided to move to London to take journalism classes.
When she was 20 years old, she tried to get her first paid writing gig.
And the hiring manager said that he was passionate about Egypt.
Nancy really wanted the job. So she claims that she was into Egyptology as well.
She had no idea how to actually read or write Arabic,
but she began joting out scribbles on paper,
and she handed it over to the man claiming to know the language.
People actually believed her. And she got the job. This was deceptive,
of course,
but her ability to lie under pressure would become absolutely vital during her
spike career.
Eventually way moved to Paris, where she found work as a freelance journalist.
In most cases,
she would go looking for a great story to write about first and then a buyer
later back in the 1930s,
she could pay for six months of life for just selling one article because her
small apartment was so cheap. The rest of her money was spent on clothes,
jewelry, and travel and having a carefree life attending parties.
During this time she learned to speak French fluently.
Nancy would take writing assignments all over France and became familiar with
all of the train and bus reads throughout the country. At the time,
she would have no idea just how important and valuable this knowledge would be.
But her familiarity with the French countryside would later save her life.
Nancy's carefree lifestyle. It changed when she was on assignment in Vienna,
in Austria. For the first time she witnessed the atrocities of the Nazi regime.
She said.
In the middle of that beautiful city of a big wheel in the square,
and the Jews were tied to the,
and a suspect would be them. I stood there and I thought,
if ever, I can do something one day, I'll do it.
Nancy decided to live in Marai, France for a while in 1936.
And she began to explore the social scene on a nights.
Now she always ran into a handsome man named Ari FIAR.
She rides he'd always been with a different girl, sometimes three or four.
The same day I used to be Popeye.
Did it stamina one night honorary came on to her,
but she did not take him seriously as a potential boyfriends. He was charming,
sexy, and amusing, but I was too experienced at once. Anything from a Playboy.
So they remained friends and she would congratulate him on his ability to find a
new woman every evening, three years later, when Nancy was 27 years old,
she returns a Mars and ran into Andre. Again, she finally gave him a chance.
It only took them a few weeks to realize that they were perfect for one another.
And Andre proposed to her.
It turns out that he was the son of a wealthy industrialist,
and she would soon be the wife of a millionaire in 1939.
War was declared in France. When Nancy was on a train from Paris to London,
she immediately went to the nearest recruiting office in London and offered her
services to the war effort on behalf of great Britain.
Nancy wanted to help so badly that she was willing to postpone her wedding to
Enri,
but the only job they could offer her was being a lunch lady in the canteen.
This was not the sort of help that she had in mind.
And she left the recruiting office a few months later,
Nancy and Onri were married at first.
She made the most of being a wife of a millionaire. She said,
no woman could have been as useless or as frivolous as I was during those wins a
months, but the desire to help the war effort,
it still pulls on our heartstrings and she never let go of her deep seated
hatred for the Nazis,
Even though Nancy and aria were wealthy enough to avoid the war,
if they chose to, they both wanted to do as much as they could to help.
In 1940 Andre received his papers to fight on behalf of the French army.
Since they had the financial means,
they stocked up on food rations and helped to feed their friends and neighbors
who did not have the foresight to prepare.
They even purchased their own vehicles so that Nancy could volunteer as an
ambulance driver. The fighting was shortlived and on June the 16th, 1940,
the prime minister of France resigned. Six days later,
an amist was signed by 1942, the Nazis they occupied all of France.
Now you would think that everyone would want to fight for France's independence
from the Nazis, but it was a bit more complicated than that.
Germany put a man named Philippe PATAR in charges than knew Marshall of France.
He had been a famous world war I hero,
and many people still respected and looked up to him.
Patan was telling the public to cooperate with Germany. Meanwhile,
officer Shal took the opposite stance.
He believed that the Nazis needed to be defeated,
and he became in charge of a group of war veterans known as the French
resistance.
These people would attempt to destroy Nazi infrastructure and kill as many
Germans as possible.
Marshall Pitar claims that this resistance it needed to be stopped.
And this led to the creation of a pro-Nazi paramilitary group called the Malise.
These were French men who agreed with Nazi ideals. And by 1943,
they had 25,000 members.
Many of the Maise would work to infiltrate the French resistance of spies only
to later then hand them over to the star. PO at first, Nancy,
Andre were casually involving themselves in subversive activities like
delivering secret messages or aging allied soldiers that they met in local
hotels. Eventually they began working more and more with the French resistance.
Nancy became a part of an escape network led by left tenant,
Colonel Ian Garrow. At first, he only trusted her to deliver coded messages,
but she was eager to get in on the action.
A man named Patrick Eleri was leading people through an escape line that became
known as the O'Leary line.
Nancy provided a safe house for these soldiers and refugees before they were
taken by a guide over the Peres mountains on the freedom trail.
One day left tenant.
Colonel Gary showed up to Nancy's home unannounced with a man that she had never
met before the maids had let the men. And when Nancy opened the door to Paula,
the mystery man forced her dog to leave the room.
This man was Paul Cole and had already invited himself who opened the most
expensive bottle of whiskey that she had been waiting to open with her husbands
on victory day. Even during peace time,
stealing a strangers whiskey and being rude to their dog is enough to get them
bands for someone's house for life Nancy.
She was rather understandably infuriated and immediately she got bad vibes from
this poor coal guy.
She ordered him to get out of her house immediately and never come back.
This shocked the two men,
because they did not expect such an outburst from a dainty woman later.
She tried to warn Gary not to trust Cole because she believed that he was
actually a spy for the Casta pad. Miss Nancy,
saying that she was overreacting and being too secretive.
She remained suspicious about col though and began to realize that Gary was
using her as little more than a bank account.
She and so had given the French resistance leaders, whatever they wanted,
they were overstepping their boundaries.
Nancy began spending less time around Gar and more time around P Patrick O. Lee,
since she could actually help save more lives in a direct way by providing
POWs with a safe house.
Nancy also began to smuggle pamphlets in the shopping basket of her bicycle so
that she could distribute resistance, newspapers and secret messages.
The Nazi soldiers,
they never suspected her because she just looked like every other housewife in
the country.
And she could speak fluent friend inch without a hint of her Australian accents.
Since Nancy never revealed to Paul Cole,
that she was a part of the Rey assumed that she was just a housewife.
It turns out that her intuition was spot on.
And Paul Cole truly was a gustapo agent. Soon after that meeting,
he betrayed 50 members of the French resistance who were arrested tortured and
ultimately killed.
Even he even left tenant Colonel and Gary was caught and put in jail as well,
instead of rubbing it here,
Nancy and Don Rey tried to get him the best lawyer money could buy.
When that fails. They helped to organize his escape.
Nancy's friends managed to S SMU lane Nazi uniform into the prison.
And Gary was able to get out in order to begin his journey on the freedom trail.
So just before we get into Nancy's escape,
I do want to recommend that after watching this video, you check out the series,
the spying game from today's sponsor,
curiosity stream curiosity stream is a subscription streaming service that
offers over 2000 documentaries and non-fiction titles from some of the world
world's best filmmakers, including exclusive originals,
that curiosity stream put together themselves.
It's also just $2 and 99 cents a month,
which is super cheap compared to some other streaming services,
which I definitely subscribe to.
Also the documentary selection on there is way better.
And if that's your thing like me, it's really a great subscription to have,
but maybe you thing, ah, Simon, is it ring only that great.
How do we really know? Maybe it's actually really terrible.
You'd never tell us what for your nay says.
You can get the first 30 days completely for free. If you sign up at curiosity,
stream.com/biographics use the promo code biographics and you'll find out for
yourself how great it really is. It's really risk free.
And there's tons of cool stuff.
That buying game is a great one to check out really one to watch. Uh,
but I love spy stuff. If you don't love spy stuff, although that's weird,
cuz you're watching this video about spying. Um,
there's loads of other stuff on there as well.
You're bound to find something that you like. So just go to curiosity,
stream.com/biographics for unlimited access to the world's top documentaries and
nonfiction series. And for our viewers ends the promo code. Biographics when to,
during the signup process and your membership is completely free for 30 days and
let's get back to today's video
In 1942,
Germany declared that they wanted 350,000 French men to move to Germany in order
to work in their factories. No one in France was happy about this, of course,
but Marshall Felipe PATAR was able to negotiate a deal that for every three men
who went to work in Germany, willingly,
they would release one French prisoner of war.
This was enough incentive for 50,000 men to volunteer, to leave,
but on everyone was willing to bow down to the Nazis groups of men and women who
despised the Germans began to disappear into the forests and they call all
themselves the Marqui.
These pockets of Marqui fighters were a vital part of the French resistance.
They worked to kill Nazis whenever they possibly could.
The only issue was that they were not organized and had no way of communicating
with one another.
Eventually the Germans learned that there was a beautiful member of the French
resistance who was managing to transport secret messages,
break Ws out of jail and organized, safe houses.
She was accomplishing so much and she continued to go undetected.
Nancy had such strong intuition about people's character that she had face to
face meetings with several gustapo spies, but was never caught.
They called her the white mouse because she would always slip out of their hands
in 1943, the white mouse,
one of the Gustos most wanted and had a 5 million Frank bounty put on her head.
She Andre knew that it was time for her to escape,
but if they both left at the same time, it would look suspicious.
Bony also wanted to stay at France because he found like he had a duty to his
family's business. As she was preparing to leave.
Nancy told Andre that if he was unfaithful and moved on with another woman,
she would understand after all she had no idea when they'd see each other again,
but she promised to wait for her Nancy escaping the country was not so
straightforward for three months.
She had to travel around the country on buses and trains,
waiting for the perfect opportunity to cross the Peres mountain. Untacked it.
She had to circle the country so many times she eventually ended up not far from
her home in Marai. Nancy stood outside of her house,
wishing so badly to go inside and see her husband one last time.
But she knew it would be too dangerous for the both of them.
And she chose to walk away. Unfortunately,
all of her efforts were in vain because she was caught with false identification
on one of these rains and the gustapo threw her in jail.
While in custody, the gustapo began to beat and interrogate Nancy.
They had no idea that they had captured the famous white mouse when they asked
why identification was fake.
She claimed she had left her husband to be with another man and wanted her fresh
start with a new identity.
The gustapo did not believe Erins claims that she must be responsible for
setting off a bomb a few weeks early.
They interrogated her for four days and she may have died if it was not for a
friend Patrick O leery when Nancy never showed up to her Rone viewpoint,
Eleri knew that she must have been captured.
So he pretended to be this lover that she claimed to be running away with.
The Nazis finally believed her cover story orient. She was able to leave.
Patrick OER was finally able to get her on the freedom trail and she made her
way to England. Once she arrived in the United Kingdom,
she decided to join Winston Churchills group called the special operations
executive or the SOE Churchill's goal was to gather all of the various factions
of the French resistance marquee and have them come together to be one large
organ,
nice group D-Day was approaching and they needed help from the resistance to get
France ready for the allied invasion.
Nancy moved to Scotlands with a group of new recruits and they all began their
spy training. The first stage was endurance.
They were made to do exercises both day and night.
A lot of people couldn't make it past that first stage.
For those that were left, they were trained in combat silent,
killing weaponry code, disabling a German tank, and a lot more,
even though she had absolutely no experience in combat Nancy was determined to
get stronger so that she would fight for the people of France and return home to
her husband.
Nancy was forced to practice karate chops on a wooden desk in order to harden
her hands.
Her instructors claims that ones swift chop in the neck was enough to kill a
Nazi.
That first she found this heart to believe until it actually happened during a
fight. She chopped a Nazi in the Akins, then kicked him in the baby maker.
The first time she did this to a German officer,
she was shocked at how easily it killed him.
Once her training was complete, it was time to,
to France so that she could help organize the marque.
She parachuted from a plane wearing camel hair coat and high heeled shoes.
Once she landed, the marque were taken aback by the look of a posh housewife,
descending from the sky. This was all part of her disguise. Of course,
since being underestimated as a harmless housewife was part of her cover.
Even though she was the famous white mouse,
her beautiful and fashionable appearance did not leave the marque with a lot of
confidence that a woman could do the job just as the Nazis thought,
they thought she must be useless.
And they were not impressed that the British had sent such a da woman to help
them. It was her job to convince these strangers to work with the SOE.
She promised that the British would send supplies and it took several days for a
radio operator dentist to also arrive. Finally, the supplies came through.
Not only did they get the standard munitions,
but the SOE sent Nancy her special requests, new silk stockings, makeup, tea,
and bottles of expensive whiskey. In order to break the ice.
She challenged the men in the marque to a drinking contest through whoever was
still standing at Dawn one. After this,
the members of the resistance license UPNs they knew that they could trust her.
Of course, she got a lot of attention while living in the forest,
since she was an attractive young woman among a bunch of dudes, years later,
one of her biographers asked if she ever had a lover while she was living with
the Marqui. She rolled her eyes saying if I had accommodated one of them,
I would've had to accommodate of them. In reality,
while she may have been a huge flirt,
she was always faithful to her husband on re one night.
Nancy had a nightmare that on re had been killed by the Nazis and a firing
squat.
She woke up in a cold sweat and hoped that it was just dream for once she wanted
her strong intuition to be wrong. As DJ approached the radio operator,
Dennis got himself caught up in the crossfire of the Mark Key in the Nazis.
He believed that he may be captured. So he destroyed the radio.
Thankfully he made it out alive,
but now the resistance members were left stranded without any way to communicate
with the British to get help. If they could not communicate with the allies,
thousands of men were going to die.
The nearest SOE radio was over 200 kilometers away at a shadow,
and they would never be able to drive a car there without in court,
a checkpoint. So Nancy wake offered to ride her bicycle over the next few days,
she rode her bike occasionally stopping to refresh her makeup so that she looked
like a pamper housewife.
Like Alicia remembered the roads from her time taking so many buses and trains
as journalists. So at least she knew where she was going.
Every time she reached a Nazi checkpoint,
she would smile and flirt with the guards. One of her ghost,
you lines was hello, officer, would you like to search me? It worked every time.
Once she reached the shadow,
she told them that she was the white mouse and she needed to contact the British
immediately. Once the SOE knew of their location, she had to make her way back,
immediately pedaling. Another 200 kilometers later in life.
Nancy said that the bike ride was the most frightening thing she had ever done,
but it was also the proudest because of this.
The marque were able to get another radio center them and she,
and the other resistance fighters continued to kill Nazis without any
hesitation. She said, if you ask me the only good Nazi is a dead one,
The war was finally over.
And the is one Nancy was recognized for a bravery and was awarded the us medal
of freedom.
The George medal from the UK and the badge of gold from New Zealand and the
order of Australia. If it went off for her work,
organizing the marque and securing that radio,
thousands of people would've died in the forest. Unfortunately,
by choosing to save thousands of men,
she had to sacrifice the one that had meant the most to her Andre had remained
faithful to her and was awaiting her return.
But the gustapo had raided their home and arrested him under suspicion of being
the husband of the white mouse.
They tortured him and eventually they offered him his freedom and exchange for
confirmation that Nancy was the white mouse refused to betray his wife and he
was killed by firing squat.
The day he died was the same day that Nancy had the nightmare about his death.
That connection.
It was so strong that she somehow knew when the love of her life had been
killed. Now that she had nothing left her in France,
Nancy moved to London and joined the M ministry.
Nancy wake carried the guilt and sorrow over the death of her husband for the
rest of her life.
Nancy would go on to move to Australia and get married a second time to a man
named John fors, but she still kept a photo of honorary next to her bet.
When asked if she had any regrets, she replied, I killed a lot of Germans.
I'm sorry. I didn't kill more. As she grew older, she was still not happy,
especially after becoming widowed for a second time.
She decided to sell her war medals at auction and used that money for her
retirement. Since she continued to be restless, she longed to be back in Europe.
Again at the age of 88, Nancy decided it was time for a fresh start.
So she moved to the staff at hotel in London.
When the concierge asked how long she would be staying, she said until I die,
hotel employees absolutely loved having her there.
The staff even had a special chair made for her at the hotel bar complete with
the plaque that said Nancy's corner.
They also painted a tiny white mouse on the ceiling of the hotel in Iran.
When guests heard that the famous Nancy wake was staying there,
they would often stop by to speak to her at the bar because of this.
She was never alone and continued to socialize,
which was the thing that she loved most.
Eventually Nancy ran out of money from her retirement fund and she could no
longer pay the steep price tag of living luxury hotel.
When the prince of Wales heard about this,
he invited her to Buckingham palace for tea.
He paid for her bill and continued to do so for the rest of her life.
She passed away in 2011 when she was 98 years old.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting.
If you did hit that thumbs up button below,
don't forget to subscribe brand new videos, just like this four times a week.
Also check out curiosity free for 30 days. There's a link below and as always,
thank you for watching.